<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tNXpnufLVkc">Tim Burton, Alice in Wonderland, Rabbit Holes</a>

I have been drafting a digital humanities course for undergraduate students for several weeks. And because its aim is to consider representation of texts, I have been thinking about how to teach text acquisition and transformation, including transcription, OCR, and transformation from one format to another. Therefore, I have been considering how to set up discrete exercises in which to show means to do this work.

Because I wish to invite as many students as possible, I have not considered requiring Windows or UNIX (I ought to be able to support both) and have assumed that free and open-source tools should be preferred. So I have been getting an education in installing open source software, and my life just seems to me like an endless series of <em>Alice in Wonderland</em> rabbit holes, with steps that go something like this:

 1. For Tesseract OCR to work with Macintosh, you must first install MacPorts.
 2. For MacPorts to run Tesseract, you must install UNIX command line tools.
 3. To have access to command line tools, you must install Apple Xcode.
 4. To install Xcode, you must have an Apple ID.
 5. Because your old iTunes ID does not seem to work like actual Apple ID (or maybe password changed, you must set up another one.
 6. Start downloading Xcode and wait.
 7. Xcode does not install command line tools by default, so you must install them from preferences after Xcode installation is complete. 
 8. Now that Xcode and UNIX command line tools are set up, give it a whirl.
 9. OK, that works on one JPEG. 

So these are the dependencies for that on Mac:
 1. Be an administrator.
 2. Set up Apple ID.
 3. Introduce UNIX Terminal.
 4. Download Xcode
 5. Download Xcode command line tools. 
 6. Download Macports
 7. Download Tesseract eng with command line tools.

To figure it out took me six hours. To download and install these things even knowing what to do takes hours. 

Now, to set it up on Windows PC, do the following:
 1. Be an administrator.
 2. Download GUI with Tesseract,  